.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, before:

Resolves #000 <!--fill issue number-->

<!-- Go through this checklist before opening your PR

### Self Checklist:

- I have performed a self-review of my own code
- I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand areas
- I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
- New and existing unit tests pass locally with my changes ("bin/rspec")
- I have run [`standardrb`](https://github.com/testdouble/standard) and verified there are no lint offenses in my code (use `standardrb --fix` to autocorrect offenses)
- I have included "WIP" in the PR Title if this is in progress

-->

### Description

- Include summary of change and what issue is fixed, including relevant motivation and context.
- Explain the need for any added dependencies for this change. (gems, js libraries, etc.)
- How have you tested this?
- Anything else we should know about?

### Type of change

<!-- Which of these options are relevant? Remove those that do not apply. -->

* Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
* New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
* Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
* This change requires a documentation update
* Documentation update

### Screenshots

<!-- Drop screenshots of any visual changes here. This will greatly speed up the review process. -->

Commit message:

Add instructions to readme and template (#47)
* Add instructions to readme and template

* Correct misspelling, add extra info

* Add graphql instructions to readme

.github/PULL_REQUEST_TEMPLATE.md, after:

Resolves #000 <!--fill issue number-->

<!-- Go through this checklist before opening your PR

### Self Checklist:

- I have performed a self-review of my own code
- I have commented my code, particularly in hard-to-understand areas
- I have made corresponding changes to the documentation
- I have added tests that prove my fix is effective or that my feature works
- New and existing unit tests pass locally with my changes ("bin/rspec")
- I have run [`standardrb`](https://github.com/testdouble/standard) and verified there are no lint offenses in my code (use `standardrb --fix` to autocorrect offenses)
- I have included "WIP" in the PR Title if this is in progress
- If I have made modifications to Graphql, I have run `rails graphql:schema:dump` to update the schema and IDL with my changes.

-->

### Description

- Include summary of change and what issue is fixed, including relevant motivation and context.
- Explain the need for any added dependencies for this change. (gems, js libraries, etc.)
- How have you tested this?
- Anything else we should know about?

### Type of change

<!-- Which of these options are relevant? Remove those that do not apply. -->

* Bug fix (non-breaking change which fixes an issue)
* New feature (non-breaking change which adds functionality)
* Breaking change (fix or feature that would cause existing functionality to not work as expected)
* This change requires a documentation update
* Documentation update

### Screenshots

<!-- Drop screenshots of any visual changes here. This will greatly speed up the review process. -->
